Lets Talk bout Computer Networking.

in the olden days how do we communicate with one another ??

we communicate using mouth right ?? that's possible when the person we want to communicate with is close to us, buh imagine that person is far from you how can you do, let's take for instance, you are in one room and the person you want to communicate is in another room how can communication be possible ??, its either you both use microphone right?? 😂, buh now you have to know that your conversation is very very private in the sense that you are the only hearing what you both are conversing right??, even tho you are making use of Microphone's with very long cable like river Nile.

In that Scenario communication is possible right ??, buh how bout when we want to communicate to somebody far from us ?? like somebody living in another country ?? communication would not be possible right ??, so this was a very difficult period for the world to communicate, so they had to find a way to solve that problem, that Led to the Invention or discovery of Networking. 
P:S I don't want to start going into the whole boring stories that Led into Invention and how Computer Networking came bout.


how Messages are being passed ?? 

Packets and Routers.

what are packets ??

as the need to send bulk messages increased, Network engineers came up with a breaking messages into smaller bit called ("PACKETS"), before sending them, these invention even made sending messages faster, unlike  during the olden days when we use store and forward method to communicate, I'm not going into what store and forward is in details, buh it's basically connecting bunch of computers together in order for us to send message, as long as one computer is connected to another, you can send message to any part of the world, buh it was not efficient cause you have to wait for like days or even months before you can recieve your message, there are alot of factors that can determine how quick you can get your message tho. but the invention of breaking down messages into smaller fragments before sending them helped in making message transfer efficient.


what are Routers ??

Routers are devices that helps to recieve and send data between computer networks.


OSI MODEL. (open system interconnection model)

all
people
seem 
to 
need
data
processing

application layer
presentation layer
session layer
transport layer
network layer
datalink layer
physical layer


EXPLANATION:

physical layer: visible cables
Datalink layer: switches
network layer: Routers
session layer: servers issue.

devices in each layer of the osi model.
Layer 1:
 physical layer: hub and modem
Layer 2:
    Datalink layer: switches and Wireless access point.
Layer 3:
    network layer: multilayer switch (MLS), Router.


what is www.
    it is a web where we can find resources over the net using uniform resource locator (url).

    DHCP
    NAT


port:
    port from 0 - 1023 are reserved port
    port from 1024 - 49152 are also reserved for application.

lan
man
wan 
wide area network
    sonet.
    frame relay.

internet == lan -> man -> wan
    its basically that the internet is the collection of the three types of network.
    all the lan are connected to each other using man, and all the man are connected to each
    other using wan.

 MODEM AND ROUTERS.

 MODEM CONVERTS DIGITAL SIGNALS INTO ANALOG SIGNALS 
 

NETWORK TOPOPLOGY.
    BUS
    RING
    STAR
    TREE
    MESH

OSI MODEL.

1. APPLICATION LAYER.
2. PRESENTATION LAYER.
3. SESSION LAYER.
4. TRANSPORT LAYER.
5. NETWORK LAYER
6. DATALINK LAYER.
7. PHYSICAL LAYER.

APPLICATION LAYER:
    it helps our computer program like web browsers, email clients, curl command to talk to the internet.
    it helps provide network services to the end users or application.

 PRESENTATION LAYER:
   it is responsible for translating data from the application layer, into formats that computers
   transmitting data over a network can easily understand, it is responsible for encryption, compressing, and formmating. 
   in general it makes sure that data transferred over the net is being understood by the sender and reciever.

